
### Three Kinds of Proposition

The philosopher David Hume (among others) drew two important distinctions between kinds of propositions, which provide important insights into how we can develop, organise and create knowledge.
For this reason these distinctions form a philosophical basis for the division of StarDust into sub-projects.

The divisions are not uncontroversial, it is not universally agreed that these distinctions are clear, but they are nevertheless built into the terminology and structure of StarDust.

Hume's first distinction is found in his observation that we cannot derive an "ought" from an "is", which we generalise into the idea that moral or evaluative judgements are not logically deducible from purely descriptive claims.
One needs, in addition to purely descriptive information, some information about _values_ or _ethics_ in order to form specific evaluative judgements.
A similar distinction is found in the philosophy of G.E. Moore who coined the term "naturalistic fallacy" for the idea that moral judgments might be definable in naturalistic terms.

Hume's second distinction is concerned exclusively with non-evaluative propositions, which Hume observes come in two kinds, those which express "relations between ideas" (which we will call _logical_ or _analytic_ propositions) and those which convey some "matter of fact", by which "empirical fact" or fact about the world might be understood.
This single distinction in Hume was refined by Kant into three separate distinctions, those between necessary and contingent propositions, between analytic and synthetic sentences, and that between knowledge _a priori_ and _a posteriori_.
These distinctions were implicitly held by Hume to be coextensive, the description of his distinction combines vocabulary suggestive of each of the three distinctions made by Kant, but were considered by Kant and many other subsequent and contemporary philosophers to be distinct.
The view that these distinctions are coextensive is typical of _positivist_ philosophies, and was revived in the philosophy of Rudolf Carnap, aspects of which may be seen to be reflected in the structure of the StarDust projects.

The importance of these distinctions (particularly for this project) lies in the different methods which are appropriate for establishing propositions of these kinds.
Thus, the (possibly _naive_) view that there is a single trichotomy here leads to the following prescriptions as to how the various kinds of proposition may be established:

- _analytic_ propositions can be established _a priori_ (typically by logical proof) given only a sufficiently good knowledge of the meaning of the language in which they are expressed.

- _synthetic_ propositions cannot be logically proven other than by derivation from other empirical propositions.
They say something about how they world is, and one cannot establish their truth without observation or experiment (and even then they may not be deducible conclusively, but are likely to depend on hypothetical generalisations).

- _evaluative_ propositions depend not only on _analytic_ and _synthetic_ claims, but also on some kind of value system

The StarDust project may appear to depend upon the Hume/Carnap thesis of the well-definedness of these distinctions and the co-extensiveness of the non-evaluative dichotomies, particularly because the three sub-projects are scoped in apparently corresponding ways.
However, this subdivision of the projects is based on purely methodological criteria which correspond to the functionality of the software belonging to each sub-project, and the precise relationship with the other aspects of the distinctions is not crucial.













